add_namespace = PAK_1955
add_namespace = PAK_ECON
add_namespace = PAK_Constitution
add_namespace = PAK_Military
add_namespace = Rawalpindi
add_namespace = Nazimuddin
add_namespace = PAK_ASSASIN
add_namespace = Language_Debate
add_namespace = Lahore_Riots
add_namespace = Bogra_PM
add_namespace = Ayub_Khan
add_namespace = Ahmedi
add_namespace = PAK_REl
add_namespace = COMPAK_Kashmir
add_namespace = Bangladesh_Independence
add_namespace = PAEC
add_namespace = Afghan_PAK
add_namespace = Gwadar
add_namespace = Khan_PAK
add_namespace = Gilgit
add_namespace = PAK_INDIA
add_namespace = USA_PAK
add_namespace = INDIA_PAK_COM
add_namespace = Bengal_Question

#country_event
country_event = {
	id = PAK_Constitution.0 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_Constitution.0"}
	title = "The Basic Principles Report"
	desc = PAK_Constitution.0.d
	picture = GFX_Basic_Principles_Report
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "A solid report"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_ASSASIN.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_ASSASIN.1"}
	title = "The Assassination of Liaquat Ali Khan"
	desc = PAK_ASSASIN.1.d
	picture = GFX_Assasination_Pakistan
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "A tragedy"
		kill_country_leader = yes
		create_country_leader = {
			name = "Khwaja Nazimuddin"
			picture = "Khwaja_Nazimuddin.dds"
			ideology = national_conservatism
		}
		complete_national_focus = PAK_Shaheed_e_Millat
		news_event = PAK_ASSASIN.2
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Nazimuddin.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Nazimuddin.1"}
	title = "Khawaja Nazimuddin Becomes Prime Minister"
	desc = Nazimuddin.1.d
	picture = GFX_Nazimuddin_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Interesting"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Lahore_Riots.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Lahore_Riots.1"}
	title = "The Lahore Riots"
	desc = Lahore_Riots.1.d
	picture = GFX_Lahore_Riots_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Unfortunate"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Lahore_Riots.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Lahore_Riots.2"}
	title = "Martial Law in Lahore"
	desc = Lahore_Riots.2.d
	picture = GFX_Lahore_Riots_2
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Order must be restored"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Bogra_PM.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bogra_PM.1"}
	title = "Mohammad Ali Bogra Becomes Prime Minister"
	desc = Bogra_PM.1.d
	picture = GFX_Bogra_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Surprising"
		create_country_leader = {
			name = "Mohammad Ali Bogra"
			picture = "Mohammad_Ali_Bogra.dds"
			ideology = national_conservatism
		}
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Bogra_PM.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bogra_PM.2"}
	title = "The Bogra Formula"
	desc = Bogra_PM.2.d
	picture = GFX_Bogra_2
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Interesting"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Bogra_PM.3 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bogra_PM.3"}
	title = "Political Infighting Intensifies"
	desc = Bogra_PM.3.d
	picture = GFX_Bogra_3
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "This will not help matters"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Bogra_PM.4 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bogra_PM.4"}
	title = "Prime Minister Bogra Dismissed"
	desc = Bogra_PM.4.d
	picture = GFX_Bogra_4
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Unfortunate"
		create_country_leader = {
			name = "Chaudhry Muhammad Ali"
			picture = "Chaudhry_Muhammad_Ali.dds"
			ideology = national_conservatism
		}
		

	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_Constitution.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_Constitution.1"}
	title = "New Constitution"# (Triple Alliance)
	desc = PAK_Constitution.1.d
	picture = GFX_PAK_Constitution_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Great news"
		drop_cosmetic_tag = yes
		ENG = { set_autonomy = { target = PAK autonomy_state = autonomy_free } }
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_Constitution.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_Constitution.2"}
	title = "New Constitution"# (United Front)
	desc = PAK_Constitution.2.d
	picture = GFX_PAK_Constitution_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Great news"
		drop_cosmetic_tag = yes
		ENG = { set_autonomy = { target = PAK autonomy_state = autonomy_free } }
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_Constitution.3 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_Constitution.3"}
	title = "New Constitution"# (Islamist Version)
	desc = PAK_Constitution.3.d
	picture = GFX_PAK_Constitution_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Wonderful news"
		drop_cosmetic_tag = yes
		ENG = { set_autonomy = { target = PAK autonomy_state = autonomy_free } }
	}
}

country_event = {
	id = Rawalpindi.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Rawalpindi.1"}
	title = "The Rawalpindi Conspiracy"
	desc = Rawalpindi.1.d
	picture = GFX_Rawalpindi_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		ai_chance = {
			factor = 75
			modifier = {
				is_historical_focus_on = yes
				factor = 100
			}
		}
		name = "Round up the plotters"
		country_event = Rawalpindi.2
	}
	option = {
		ai_chance = {
			factor = 25
			modifier = {
				is_historical_focus_on = yes
				factor = 0
			}
		}
		name = "Baseless Speculation"
		set_politics = {
			ruling_party = communism
			elections_allowed = no
		}
		drop_cosmetic_tag = yes
		ENG = { set_autonomy = { target = PAK autonomy_state = autonomy_free } }
		news_event = Rawalpindi.3
		complete_national_focus = PAK_Leftist_Coup_Succeeds
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Rawalpindi.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Rawalpindi.2"}
	title = "The Rawalpindi Conspiracy Revealed"
	desc = Rawalpindi.2.d
	picture = GFX_Rawalpindi_2
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "A military purge is in order..."
	}
}

country_event = {
	id = Ayub_Khan.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Ayub_Khan.1"}
	title = "Ayub Khan's Coup"
	desc = Ayub_Khan.1.d
	picture = GFX_Ayub_Khan_Coup
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Surprising"
		set_politics = {
			ruling_party = neutrality
			elections_allowed = no
		}
		if = {
			limit = {
				has_country_flag = balanced_development
			}
			country_event = Ayub_Khan.2
			complete_national_focus = PAK_Solidiy_Civil_Military_Alliance
		}
		else = {
			country_event = Bangladesh_Independence.1
			complete_national_focus = PAK_East_Pakistan_Explodes
		}
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Ayub_Khan.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Ayub_Khan.2"}
	title = "Ayub Khan Consolidates Power"
	desc = Ayub_Khan.2.d
	picture = GFX_Ayub_Khan_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Hopefully the military can calm tensions"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Language_Debate.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Language_Debate.1"}
	title = "The Language Debate"
	desc = Language_Debate.1.d
	picture = GFX_Language_Debate_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "Restore order!"
		hidden_effect = {
			country_event = { id = Language_Debate.2 days = 3 } 
		}
	}
	option = {
		name = "Allow people to speak out"
		add_political_power = -100
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Language_Debate.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Language_Debate.2"}
	title = "Rioting in Dacca"
	desc = Language_Debate.2.d
	picture = GFX_Language_Debate_2
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "More rebel elements....."
		add_stability = -0.05
		add_popularity = {
			ideology = conservative 
			popularity = -0.05
		}
	}
}

country_event = {
	id = COMPAK_Kashmir.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = COMPAK_Kashmir.1"}
	title = "General Akbar Khan Demands Action"
	desc = COMPAK_Kashmir.1.d
	picture = GFX_COMPAK_Kashmir_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "Restrait is neccessary"
	}
	option = {
		name = "Launch the Strikes"
		start_border_war = {
			change_state_after_war = no
			attacker = {
				state = 1144
				num_provinces = 4
				on_win = COMPAK_Kashmir.2
				on_lose = COMPAK_Kashmir.3
				on_cancel = Indochina_War.4
			}
						
			defender = {
				state = 441
				num_provinces = 4
				on_win = Indochina_War.4
				on_lose = Indochina_War.4
				on_cancel = Indochina_War.4
			}
		}
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = COMPAK_Kashmir.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = COMPAK_Kashmir.2"}
	title = "The Liberation of Kashmir"
	desc = COMPAK_Kashmir.2.d
	picture = GFX_COMPAK_Kashmir_2
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "A Glorious Day"
		transfer_state = 441
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = COMPAK_Kashmir.3 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = COMPAK_Kashmir.3"}
	title = "Disaster in Kashmir"
	desc = COMPAK_Kashmir.3.d
	picture = GFX_COMPAK_Kashmir_3
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "Unfortunate, but not unexpected"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_1955.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_1955.1"}
	title = "The 1955 Constituent Assembly"
	desc = PAK_1955.1.d
	picture = GFX_PAK_1955_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "United Front"
		ai_chance = {
			factor = 75
			modifier = {
				is_historical_focus_on = yes
				factor = 100
			}
		}
		complete_national_focus = PAK_United_Front
		set_politics = {
			ruling_party = Social_Liberalism
			elections_allowed = no
		}
	}
	option = {
		ai_chance = {
			factor = 50
			modifier = {
				is_historical_focus_on = yes
				factor = 0
			}
		}
		name = "Triple Alliance"
		complete_national_focus = PAK_Triple_Alliance
		set_politics = {
			ruling_party = conservative
			elections_allowed = no
		}
	}
	option = {
		ai_chance = {
			factor = 50
			modifier = {
				is_historical_focus_on = yes
				factor = 0
			}
		}
		name = "Jamaat-i-Islami"
		complete_national_focus = PAK_Jamaat_i_Islami
		set_politics = {
			ruling_party = islamism
			elections_allowed = no
		}
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_Military.0 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_Military.0"}
	title = "A Pakistani Army"
	desc = PAK_Military.0.d
	picture = GFX_PAK_Military_0
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "Good news"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_Military.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_Military.1"}
	title = "Ayub Khan Becomes First Pakistani Army Chief"
	desc = PAK_Military.1.d
	picture = GFX_PAK_Military_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "Excellent"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Ahmedi.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Ahmedi.1"}
	title = "The Ahmedi Question"
	desc = Ahmedi.1.d
	picture = GFX_Ahmedi_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "This won't end well"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_REl.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_REl.1"}
	title = "Imam's in the Army"
	desc = PAK_REl.1.d
	picture = GFX_PAK_REl_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "Why would the army complain?"
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_ECON.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_ECON.1"}
	title = "Jute or Cotton"
	desc = PAK_ECON.1.d
	picture = GFX_Jute_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "Jute"
		ai_chance = {
			factor = 50
			modifier = {
				is_historical_focus_on = yes
				factor = 100
			}
		}
		set_country_flag = balanced_development
		random_owned_controlled_state = {
			limit = {
				is_core_of = BAN
			}
			add_extra_state_shared_building_slots = 2
			add_building_construction = {
				type = agri_industrial_complex
				level = 2
				instant_build = yes
			}
		}
	}
	option = {
		name = "Cotton"
		ai_chance = {
			factor = 50
			modifier = {
				is_historical_focus_on = yes
				factor = 0
			}
		}
		random_owned_controlled_state = {
			limit = {
				NOT = { 
					is_core_of = BAN
				}
			}
			add_extra_state_shared_building_slots = 2
			add_building_construction = {
				type = agri_industrial_complex
				level = 2
				instant_build = yes
			}
		}
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_ECON.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_ECON.2"}
	title = "The Bank Expansion Question"
	desc = PAK_ECON.2.d
	picture = GFX_Pakistan_national_bank
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "Place the Bank in Dacca"
		set_country_flag = balanced_development
		430 = {
			add_extra_state_shared_building_slots = 2
			add_building_construction = {
				type = office_park
				level = 2
				instant_build = yes
			}
		}
	}
	option = {
		name = "Place the Bank in West Pakistan"
		capital_scope = {
			add_extra_state_shared_building_slots = 2
			add_building_construction = {
				type = office_park
				level = 2
				instant_build = yes
			}
		}
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_ECON.3 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_ECON.3"}
	title = "Develop Lahore or Dacca"
	desc = PAK_ECON.3.d
	picture = GFX_Pak_Econ_3
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "Support BSRM"
		set_country_flag = balanced_development
		430 = {
			add_resource = { type = steel amount = 20 }
		}
	}
	option = {
		name = "Support Mughal Steel"
		440 = {
			add_resource = { type = steel amount = 20 }
		}
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_ECON.4 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_ECON.4"}
	title = "Develop the NWFP or Interior Bengal"
	desc = PAK_ECON.4.d
	picture = GFX_Pak_Econ_4
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "Interior Bengal"
		set_country_flag = balanced_development
		1108 = {
			add_extra_state_shared_building_slots = 2
			add_building_construction = {
				type = infrastructure
				level = 1
				instant_build = yes
			}
			add_building_construction = {
				type = state_infrastructure
				level = 1
				instant_build = yes
			}
		}
	}
	option = {
		name = "NWFP"
		442 = {
			add_extra_state_shared_building_slots = 2
			add_building_construction = {
				type = infrastructure
				level = 1
				instant_build = yes
			}
			add_building_construction = {
				type = state_infrastructure
				level = 1
				instant_build = yes
			}
		}
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = PAK_ECON.5 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_ECON.5"}
	title = "Develop Sindh or Coastal Bengal"
	desc = PAK_ECON.5.d
	picture = GFX_Pak_Econ_5
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	option = {
		name = "Develop Karachi"
		
		443 = {
			add_extra_state_shared_building_slots = 2
			add_building_construction = {
				type = dockyard
				level = 1
				instant_build = yes
			}
			add_building_construction = {
				type = industrial_complex
				level = 1
				instant_build = yes
			}
		}
	}
	option = {
		name = "Develop Chittagong"
		set_country_flag = balanced_development
		919 = {
			add_extra_state_shared_building_slots = 2
			add_building_construction = {
				type = dockyard
				level = 1
				instant_build = yes
			}
			add_building_construction = {
				type = industrial_complex
				level = 1
				instant_build = yes
			}
		}
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Bangladesh_Independence.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bangladesh_Independence.1"}
	title = "The Bangaldeshi Uprising"
	desc = Bangladesh_Independence.1.d
	picture = GFX_Bangladesh_Independence_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "We must crush this"
		country_event = Bangladesh_Independence.2
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Bangladesh_Independence.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bangladesh_Independence.2"}
	title = "The Fate of the 14th Division"
	desc = Bangladesh_Independence.2.d
	picture = GFX_Bangladesh_Independence_2
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	immediate = {
		release = BAN
	}
	option = {
		name = "We can not accept the loss"
		news_event = Bangladesh_Independence.3
	}
	option = {
		name = "Fight until the End"
		news_event = Bangladesh_Independence.4
	}
}
country_event = {
	id = Bengal_Question.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bengal_Question.1"}
	title = "The Bengal Question"
	desc = Bengal_Question.1.d
	picture = GFX_Bengal_Question
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes
	immediate = {
		release = BAN
	}
	option = {
		name = "Grant greater autonomy"
		add_stability = 0.15
		every_owned_state = {
			limit = {
				is_core_of = BAN
			}
			add_dynamic_modifier = { modifier = autonomous_state } }
	}
	
	option = {
		name = "The status quo is fine"
		add_political_power = -100
		add_stability = -0.05
	}
}

#news_event
news_event = {
	id = PAEC.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAEC.1"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]The Establishment of PAEC"
	picture = GFX_PAEC
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = PAEC.1.d

	option = {
		name = "Interesting"
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = PAK_ASSASIN.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_ASSASIN.2"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]The Assassination of Liaquat Ali Khan"
	picture = GFX_PAK_ASSASIN_2
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = PAK_ASSASIN.2.d

	option = {
		name = "Unfortunate"
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = Afghan_PAK.20 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Afghan_PAK.20"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]Pakistan Condemns Afghani Threats"
	picture = GFX_Afghan_PAK_20
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = Afghan_PAK.20.d

	option = {
		name = "Concerning"
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = Gwadar.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Gwadar.1"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]Pakistan Purchases Gwadar"
	picture = GFX_Gwadar
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = Gwadar.1.d

	option = {
		name = "Interesting"
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = Khan_PAK.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Khan_PAK.1"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]Foreign Minister Khan Dazzles the UN"
	picture = GFX_Generic_UN_1950s
	is_triggered_only = yes
	desc = Khan_PAK.1.d

	option = {
		name = "Great"
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = Gilgit.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Gilgit.1"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]The Status of Gilgit Balistan"
	picture = GFX_Gilgit_Baltistan
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = Gilgit.1.d

	option = {
		name = "Interesting"
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = PAK_INDIA.10 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = PAK_INDIA.10"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]Pakistan Rejects the No War Pact"
	picture = GFX_PAK_INDIA_10
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = PAK_INDIA.10.d

	option = {
		name = "Concerning"
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = USA_PAK.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = USA_PAK.1"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]Presidential Visit to Pakistan"
	picture = GFX_USA_PAK_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = USA_PAK.1.d

	option = {
		name = "Interesting"
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = Bangladesh_Independence.3 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bangladesh_Independence.3"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]Pakistan Withdraws from Bangladesh"
	picture = GFX_Bangladesh_Independence_3
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = Bangladesh_Independence.3.d

	option = {
		name = "Surprising"
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = Bangladesh_Independence.4 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bangladesh_Independence.4"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]The Bangaldesh Uprising"
	picture = GFX_Bangladesh_Independence_4
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = Bangladesh_Independence.4.d

	option = {
		name = "Another war...."
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = INDIA_PAK_COM.1 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = INDIA_PAK_COM.1"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]The All India Party Conference"
	picture = GFX_INDIA_PAK_COM_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = INDIA_PAK_COM.1.d

	option = {
		name = "Interesting"
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = Rawalpindi.3 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Rawalpindi.3"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]The Rawalpindi Revolution"
	picture = GFX_Rawalpindi_3
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = Rawalpindi.3.d

	option = {
		name = "A major development"
		if = { 
			limit = {
				tag = PAK
			}
			news_event = { id = Rawalpindi.4 days = 5 } 
		}
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = Rawalpindi.4 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Rawalpindi.4"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]Faiz Ahmed Faiz Named Chairman of the CPP"
	picture = GFX_Rawalpindi_4
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = Rawalpindi.4.d

	option = {
		name = "An interesting choice"
	}
}
###1960s Pakistan Events
add_namespace = Bohla_Cyclone
country_event = {
	id = Bohla_Cyclone.1
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bohla_Cyclone.0"}
	title = "The Bohla Cyclone"
	desc = Bohla_Cyclone.1.d
	picture = GFX_Bohla_Cyclone_1
	is_triggered_only = yes
	fire_only_once = yes

	option = {
		name = "At least the elections will go on..."
		hidden_effect = {
			news_event = Bohla_Cyclone.2
			#Remove 500k from Chittagong
			919 = {
				add_manpower = -500000
			}
		}
	}
}
news_event = {
	id = Bohla_Cyclone.2 
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Bohla_Cyclone.1"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]The Bohla Cyclone Disaster"
	picture = GFX_Bohla_Cyclone_2
	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes
	desc = Bohla_Cyclone.2.d

	option = {
		name = "Horrible"
	}
}

#Events from Tree PAK_CML_Bhutto
add_namespace = CML_Bhutto
news_event = {
	id = CML_Bhutto.1
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = CML_Bhutto.1"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]Bhutto Assumes Martial Law Powers"
	desc = CML_Bhutto.1.d
	picture = GFX_CML_Bhutto_1

	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes

    option = {
        name = "A man of the people"
    }
}

#PAK_Democratic_1965_Elections Tree events

1965 General and Presidential Elections (Should launch sometime in Fall 65 if player goes down democratic constitutional path)
"The people of Pakistan went to the polls to elect a new National Assembly and President for Pakistan. This is the first election under the new constitution. The people of Pakistan have two choices. They can either go with President Ayub Khan, who established the new constitution and guided the nation to these elections. He currently controls an alliance of centrist and right leaning parties. Or they can go with the fiery Bengali politician Sheikh Mujibur Rahman who leads a leftist coalition. Ayub Khan embraces a capitalistic development plan and strong central government. Mujibur Rahman wishes to curtail worker exploitation, bring socialism, and expand provincial autonomy."
-Ayub Khan Sweeps the polls! (completes focus PAK_Ayub_Khan_Centrist_Coalition)
-Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and his leftists win! (completes focus PAK_Sheikh_Mujibur_Rahman_Leftist_Victory)

PTV Begins Broadcasting (comes from focus "PAK_Establish_PTV")
"Pakistan Television (PTV) started its first broadcast last night. The new state television plans on delivering news reports, cultural programs, and entertainment for all citizens. President Ayub Khan in a press release stated his hope the new media would help unite the people of Pakistan and show the world all the beauty that lies within the nation. Although the number of televisions in the country is low, experts believe that this new media will soon become widespread in time."
-Great Progress for Pakistan (national spirit for 5 years, "PTV Broadcasts" provides stability boost) 
Pakistan Holds Vietnam Talks with US chain (event fires if conditions are met, 1) Vietnam war is a thing 2) focus PAK_Discuss_Expanded_US_Ties happens 3) Ayub Khan in charge)

US Requests Pakistani Division (Pakistan event)	#country_event = Dem_Ayub65.12
"A senior American cabinet member met with President Ayub Khan. He stated the United States would appreciate help in its ongoing conflict in Vietnam. He stated the United States was looking for a commitment of at least one infantry division. In exchange the United States can provide economic support, equipment for two infantry divisions and half an armoured division. The people of Pakistan are generally sympathetic to the anti-colonial struggle of the Vietnamese and would not view our involvement positively. However, the military would no doubt really appreciate the extra equipment. However, there would likely be discontent among the junior officers and soldiers over the foreign deployment."
-Accept the request (US get event Pakistan Accept Request)
-Decline the request (US get event Pakistan Refuses Request)

Pakistan Refuses Request (US event)
"Pakistan President Ayub Khan informed us he could not provide an infantry division for combat duty in Vietnam. Instead he offered to send a medical unit. However, as we have no need for such services, we declined the request. This is a setback to our efforts at internationalizing Vietnam as a global conflict against communism. Some of our allies in Congress will be sure to point out that despite our history of aid to Pakistan, they appear reluctant to return the favor and aid us. The Pakistanis are mostly worried about their own conflicts in the region and the risk of domestic backlash if they sent troops."
-Damn it (US-Pakistan relations drop)

Pakistan Accepts Request (US events)
"President Ayub Khan informed us he would dispatch an infantry division for Vietnam. He stated his top military officers are already considering which unit to send and state Pakistan is proud to continue the historical legacy of South Asian military deployments abroad to ensure global security. His government will soon release a statement to the public explaining the decision was based on existing ties with the United States and a desire to aid the Vietnamese people against the evils of Soviet-style communism. We will soon give orders to dispatch the promised arms and cash to the Pakistani government."
-Great news (US-Pakistan relations boost, Pakistan gets event "Pakistan Dispatches Division to Vietnam in 30 days)

Pakistan Dispatches Division to Vietnam (Pakistan event)
"Despite some large demonstrations by university students, the government of Pakistan confirmed an infantry division was embarking to deploy in Vietnam. The force is meant to aid in the security of Asia against a violent, European communist ideology. The Pakistanis are painstakingly avoiding criticism of all communism to avoid antagonizing China. Ever since the government announced its intentions, there have been protests by leftists and religious activists. Both accuse the government of supporting Western imperialism and selling Pakistani lives for cash. The Pakistan military appears supportive, but privately it seems many officers and soldiers worked hard to avoid being deployed abroad. Regardless, the Pakistan government remains committed and has refused to state what the American government is providing Pakistan in exchange for its help."
-Good luck chaps (1 pakistan division sent as an expeditionary force to Vietnam or one division removed [idk what mechanic would be best for this] Pakistan-China ties drop, national spirit 5 year "Vietnam Protests" drop in stability, slight drop in military organization/morale, construction costs for infra/civ/mil/office park increased, Pakistan gains modern US infantry equipment, artillery, trucks for 2 Infantry divisions, while receiving tanks, trucks, and APCs for half an armoured division, and also 2 office parks to simulate the economic aid)

Nationalizing Some Industries (comes from PAK_Nationalize_Some_Industries)
"The government passed legislation that nationalized the steel industry. This is the latest measures by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to push the nation towards a socialist economy. The nationalization is meant to increase productivity, curtail corruption, and end any exploitation of workers. Rahman told reporters after the vote that the era of crony capitalism in Pakistan was over. He further stated that government guidance and funding would expand productivity and lead to a more efficient industry. Critics point out the government may not have the capability or experience to run such an industry and there are worries that corruption could undermine the process. Regardless, the announcement is expected to be popular among many in the country."
-For the people (adds 3 steel mills, national spirit "Nationalized steel" that greatly increases time to produce steel mill)

Pakistan Questions American Ties (event from PAK_Reassess_American_Relations)
"During a recent National Assembly debate, members of the government asked the Foreign Minister questions regarding tie with the United States. These parliamentarians question how Pakistan could maintain friendly ties with a nation openly engaged with colonial powers and at times perpetuating continued colonial rule across the globe. The Foreign Minister agreed with those statements and insisted the government would re-evaluate ties between Pakistan and the United States. Many observers noted this display in parliament was likely staged by the government to showcase why Pakistan wanted to move away from the United States and establish closer ties to socialist states. The American Ambassador noted his disappointment with the comments made at the National Assembly while the State Department in Washington abruptly cancelled a planned visit of senior economic officials to Pakistan. Pakistan likewise cancelled plans to welcome an American military mission to the country. The Chinese and Soviet government are said to be happy with these recent events."
-A new era (US-Pakistan ties greatly hurt, China-Pakistan and Soviet-Pakistan ties big boost)


#PAK_Democratic_1970_Election (Events from this tree)

1970 General and Presidential Elections (Should launch sometime in Fall 70 if player goes down democratic constitutional path)
"Once again millions of Pakistanis took to the polls for elections to determine which party would rule Pakistan and who will be President. Former President and father of the current constitution, Ayub Khan announced his retirement from politics and will not participate. However, the young Zulfikar Ali Bhutto appears to be leading his own party, the Pakistan Peoples Party and a centrist coalition against Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and his leftist coalition of socialist parties. Although Bhutto and Rahman both advocate socialism, Bhutto advocates for an Islamic Socialism which Rahman supporters dismiss as too watered down. For parties at the center and right leaning, Bhutto appears the lesser of two evils, especially as he supports a strong center, however, there is also a ground-swell of support for not just the socialism of Rahman but also his advocacy of an almost non-existent center and greater provincial autonomy, especially for East Pakistan."
-Bhutto Triumphs! (completes focus PAK_Bhutto_Triumphs)
-Rahman Victorious! (completes focus PAK_Sheikh_MujiburPAK_Nationalization_Of_Essential_Industries_Act_Rahman_Victorious)

Six Points Proposal at National Assembly (event from PAK_Propose_Six_Points)
"In a tense National Assembly session, President Sheikh Mujibur Rahman spoke in favor of a newly presented bill calling for the implementation of the Six Points for East Pakistan. Sheikh Mujibur Rahman unveiled the Six Points several years earlier as a series of policies meant to secure the rights and dignity of East Pakistan. At the time, West Pakistanis and federalists condemned the proposals for essentially granting East Pakistan independence. After his speech, a fiery debate took place with many in the opposition, especially representatives from West Pakistan, condemned the new bill as writing the death warrant for united Pakistan. Many government representatives and Bengali members spoke in favor of the bill, calling it a restoration of Bengali honor."
-A Dangerous situation (player has to side to either go with Political Unrest or Six Points Proposal Amended

Political Unrest (event from PAK_Dealing_With_Political_Unrest)
"News of the Six Points bill in the National Assembly has seen Pakistan plunged into unrest. Across West Pakistan, many have taken to the street to condemn Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as a Bengali agent working to destroy the nation. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the leader of the opposition spoke at some of the rallies in Karachi, stating he understood the feeling of anguish among the people. In Dacca, Bengalis came in massive crowds celebrating the bill. Many feel Pakistan had treated them as second-class citizens and the new bill would rectify the problem."
-Turmoil (spirit, "Political Unrest" big stability drop, production/efficiency drops, event West Pakistani Politicians Leave Dacca fires 10 days later)

West Pakistani Politicians Leave Dacca
"The political fallout of the Six Points bill reached a critical point when all the West Pakistani representatives walked out of the National Assembly and flew out of Dacca. They were led out by the opposition leader Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. Upon landing in Karachi, Bhutto declared they would not return to the parliament unless the government withdrew the Six Points bill. Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was defiant, stating he would not be cowed from carrying out the will of the people. He noted the remaining members of the assembly can finish passing the bill without the opposition. Analysts note that without the boycotting parliamentarians, the country appears clearly divided."
-Oh no (event, military divided on issue fires 5 days later, negative impacts of spirit "Political Unrest" increase) 

Military Divided on Issue
"Since the new constitution came into effect, the military accelerated its efforts to better recruit proportional to the ethnic makeup of the country. As a result, there are far more Bengalis in the armed forces than previously. This has made the current political climate more difficult. There had been discussions within the Army to perhaps intervene and seize control over the situation. However, it became clear that such an act might instigate major mutiny or an insurrection by Bengali forces. Considering many of these soldiers and officers are based in East Pakistan, any order to seize the National Assembly could result in disaster. The GHQ informed the opposition leaders that the military cannot act positively given the circumstances."
-Situation report (event, Division of Assets Agreed in 30 days)

Division of Assets Agreed
"Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and a delegation of West Pakistani parliamentarians, military leaders, and civil servants met with their Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and his own delegation. After a series of discussions, the two sides agreed on a division of assets and the repatriation of West Pakistani personnel from East Pakistan. It is clear Rahman will not compromise on his Six Points and such a passage would be intolerable to the people of West Pakistan. This private agreement paves the way for Rahman to declare Bengali independence and end the united Pakistan experiment. The repatriation is already quietly occurring to make the transition as smooth as possible."
-A peaceful transition (event Bangladesh Achieves Independence occurs in 60 days)

Bangladesh Achieves Independence
"In a stunning announcement, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman has proclaimed the independence of East Pakistan as Bangladesh. He gave the announcement to cheering crowds. Bengalis across the new nation have started to fly homemade flags. In West Pakistan, now just Pakistan, the mood is despondent but muted. Many had expected this announcement for weeks and at this point many feel it is good riddance. Not many Pakistanis remain in the former East Pakistan and they are expected home soon. The Pakistan military has instituted martial law and handed power to Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the head of the largest political party in the country. He has promised to restore order and establish a new constitution for Pakistan."
-Major loss (spirit, "Political Turmoil" removed, Bangladesh gains independence, the focus PAK_BHUTTO_CML opens, this is the new path for Pakistan, event Military Must Rebuild in 30 days)

Military Must Rebuild
"The loss of Bangladesh is a major blow to the Pakistan military. Nearly one-third of its personnel were Bengali and the vast majority have joined the new state. The military will need to rebuild its ranks, but thankfully there are not only ample reserves but a strong tradition of military service among many communities in Pakistan. Regardless, it will take time to restore our capacities and re-establish certain facilities. The new Chief Martial Law Administrator, Zulifkar Ali Bhutto has pledged his complete support for the efforts to restore the Pakistan military to its former glory."
-We will recover (spirit "Military Rebuild" for 5 years, manpower severely reduced, maybe by up to 50 percent, if possible, remove a third of all equipment for the Pakistan military, organizational drop)

Six Points Proposal Amended (from focus PAK_Six_Points_Amended)
"When President Sheikh Mujibur Rahman supported a proposed bill to adopt the Six Points for East Pakistan it led to intense criticism from West Pakistanis. However, after the initial tension, the two sides agreed to amend the proposed bill in a way that both sides find beneficial. Ultimately, these discussions bore fruit and the government will soon present an amended version of the bill that will pass. Neither side is said to be wholly satisfied with the agreement, but considering the circumstances, it is better than the alternative."
-The bill is amended (event, Plans for east Pakistan fires in 30 days)

Plans for East Pakistan Announced
"The newly amended bill on the Six Points past the National Assembly with little debate. The bill revamps the political structure of Pakistan. West Pakistan will become Pakistan and have a separate federal parliament than from the planned establishment of an autonomous East Pakistan. East Pakistan will enjoy its own parliament, defence force, and development policy. The two wings will now be connected through a shared foreign policy and economic ties. Both wings will have their own executives, with disputes resolved through dialogue. The initial reaction of the people in both wings is disappointment, but an acceptance that this solution was needed to stop the decades of political problems plaguing the country since independence."
-Plan unveiled (Sprit "Preparing for East Pakistan" negative impact on all construction, production/efficiency as well, event Repatriation of Pakistanis fires in 60 days)

Repatriation of Pakistanis
"Since the announcement regarding the establishment of East Pakistan was announced, federal employees and military personnel were asked to pick which federal system they wanted to join. Either Pakistan or East Pakistan. Since then, there has been extensive effort for the moving of Pakistanis from East Pakistan ahead of the establishment of East Pakistan. At the same time East Pakistanis are also being shifted back home. One newspaper noted a flight of East Pakistani military officers exited a plane in Dacca, only to see Pakistani officers immediately board the same plane to return back to Pakistan. Unfortunately the repatriation is leading to some issues, especially for families where one spouse is from Pakistan and the other from East Pakistan."
-Keep the flights going (Spirit "Preparing for East Pakistan" impacts slightly better, event Division of National Assets in 60 days)

Division of National Assets
"Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, who will take control of Pakistan once East Pakistan is established concluded talks with Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who will head East Pakistan. The two men agreed to a division of national assets between the two sides. This includes the division of cash reserves, resources, and the military. Both men were positive after the talks and expressed their satisfaction over the new Pakistan about to form. The agreement was financially generous to East Pakistan and many interpret this as a gesture from Pakistan that despite the changed status, they still see East Pakistan as a part of united Pakistan."
-An agreement was reached (Spirit "Preparing for East Pakistan" impacts slightly better, event East Pakistan Formed in 60 days, 2 Office Parks in West Pakistan removed, 2 gained in Dacca)

East Pakistan Formed
"After months of negotiations and preparations, East Pakistan finally began functioning as an autonomous province of Pakistan. Sheikh Mujibur Rahman addressed the people of East Pakistan stating his promise for the restoration of Bengali dignity and honor was complete. He stated Pakistan has emerged stronger and more united with this decision and both wings will now prosper together and not at the expense of each other. Large crowds gathered to watch a parade which included cultural floats and a military parade of soldiers from the newly established East Pakistan Army. In Pakistan the reaction was more mute. The new leader of Pakistan Zulfikar Ali Bhutto stated he would maintain the state as is until the next elections. At this point many in Pakistan accepted this result was inevitable so there has been a quiet acceptance."
-A new era (spirit "Preparing for East Pakistan" removed, East Pakistan released as a puppet of Pakistan, in 30 days event "Hand East Pakistan Military Assets" occurs)

Hand East Pakistan Military Assets
"Since the last constitution came into effect, a much stronger effort was made to better recruit ethnic groups proportional to their representation within Pakistan. Although many senior officers were Pakistanis, there were a large number of young Bengali officers and soldiers. The vast majority of whom signed up to join the East Pakistan Army. We are also committed to hand the East Pakistan military its share of our equipment. This leaves a big headache for GHQ who suddenly find a lack of manpower and assets to call upon. However, the provinces of Pakistan were historically a major source of military manpower across the subcontinent and many volunteers can eagerly be found. More importantly, Pakistan does have ample reserves as well. Pakistan will be fine but restructuring the military to tap these sources will take time and effort."
-We will restore our strength (spirit "Military Rebuild" for 5 years, manpower severely reduced, maybe by up to 50 percent, if possible, remove a third of all equipment for the Pakistan military, organizational drop)

Nationalization of Essential Industries Act (event from PAK_Nationalization_of_Essential_Industries_Act)
"As part of the initiative of President Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to transform Pakistan into a socialist economy, the national assembly passed the Nationalization of Essential Industries Act. This bill calls for the nationalization of the petroleum and electric industries. The government argued these are vital industries that should not put citizens at the mercy of capitalist price gauging or under the control of private corporations. With the bill passed, the President directed federal resources to begin the process of bringing these companies under government supervision."
-Socialism marches on (5 power plants, 3 oil resource buildings and 1 oil reserve gained, national spirit "Electric and Gas Nationalized" makes those buildings more expensive to build)
